README.md, before:

# StartTree
A terminal-style home page replicating the tree command, modified from [this](https://notabug.org/nytly/home) start page, which no longer exists.

<p align="center">
  <img src="/images/StartTree.png", title="StartTree"/>
</p>

<div align="center">
  <h1>
    <a href="https://gideonwolfe.com/">
        <img style="vertical-align:middle" src="/images/forest.png", width="400", />
    </a>
      <span style=""> 
        <img style="vertical-align:middle" src="/images/void.png", width="400", />
        </a>
      </span>
  </h1>
</div>

# Usage
## Installation
To install StartTree for the first time, run the following commands:  
(Note: If the `~/.config/StartTree` directory already exists, `init.sh` will not copy the example config to prevent accidentally overwriting a custom config. )
```
git clone https://github.com/Paul-Houser/StartTree.git
cd StartTree
chmod +x init.sh
chmod +x generate.py
./init.sh
./generate.py
```
This will create the directory `~/.config/StartTree` containing the default `config.yaml`, install `starttree.py` to your `$PATH`, as well as generate the html/css, which you can view by pointing your browser at `$HOME/.cache/StartTree/index.html`.

## Config
The config should be placed in `~/.config/StartTree/config.yaml`

## Updating the HTML
To re-generate the html/css after editing the config, execute `starttree.py` from any directory.

# Example Config
```yaml
font_size: 22 # specify font size
theme: void # specify the name of a theme in the themes/ directory, or use 'pywal'
tree_1: # each column should be named 'tree_X' where X is unique for each tree.
  general: # Header name
    github: "https://www.github.com/" # Link-text: url
    gmail: "https://mail.google.com/"
  reddit:
    # the following is an example of naming a link something with a space,
    # or containing characters that cannot be in a yaml variable name.
    frontpage: 
      - "https://www.reddit.com/"
      - "front page" # 
    unixporn: "https://www.reddit.com/r/unixporn/"
tree_2:
  other:
    archwiki: 
      - "https://archlinux.org/"
      - "arch wiki"
    hulu: "https://www.hulu.com/"
    netflix: "https://www.netflix.com/"
    youtube: "https://www.youtube.com/"
```

# Themes

A variety of themes can be found in the `themes` directory. 

If one wishes to dynamically theme from `pywal`, they may select `pywal` as their chosen theme in `config.yaml`.

# Docker

In order to circumvent some restrictions on browsers for what is allowed as a "Home" and "New Tab" page, you can host StartTree as a lightweight `NGINX` server through `docker-compose`.

To set this up, one must have `docker` and `docker-compose` installed and configured. Then, go into the directory where you cloned `StartTree`, and run

```bash
cd docker
vim docker-compose.yaml # edit specifics to your liking
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yaml up -d
```

This will make the `NGINX` server persist across reboots. You can point your browser's new tab and home page to `localhost:p<port#>` and you should see your startpage!

### NOTE: 

Currently, docker is unaware if a file changes on the fly (like generating a new colorscheme or adding new shortcuts), so you have to restart the container with

`docker-compose -f docker-compose.yaml restart <servicename>`

Commit message:

moved skeleton files to cache so that the python code doesn't need to be updated dynamically.

README.md, after:

# StartTree
A terminal-style home page replicating the tree command, modified from [this](https://notabug.org/nytly/home) start page, which no longer exists.

<p align="center">
  <img src="/images/StartTree.png", title="StartTree"/>
</p>

<div align="center">
  <h1>
    <a href="https://gideonwolfe.com/">
        <img style="vertical-align:middle" src="/images/forest.png", width="400", />
    </a>
      <span style=""> 
        <img style="vertical-align:middle" src="/images/void.png", width="400", />
        </a>
      </span>
  </h1>
</div>

# Usage
## Requirements
Requires the `bs4` python package.

## Installation
To install StartTree for the first time, run the following commands:  
(Note: If the `~/.config/StartTree` directory already exists, `init.sh` will not copy the example config to prevent accidentally overwriting a custom config. )
```
git clone https://github.com/Paul-Houser/StartTree.git
cd StartTree
chmod +x init.sh
chmod +x generate.py
./init.sh
./generate.py
```
This will create the directory `~/.config/StartTree` containing the default `config.yaml`, install `starttree.py` to your `$PATH`, as well as generate the html/css, which you can view by pointing your browser at `$HOME/.cache/StartTree/index.html`.

## Config
The config should be placed in `~/.config/StartTree/config.yaml`

## Updating the HTML
To re-generate the html/css after editing the config, execute `starttree.py` from any directory.

# Example Config
```yaml
font_size: 22 # specify font size
theme: void # specify the name of a theme in the themes/ directory, or use 'pywal'
tree_1: # each column should be named 'tree_X' where X is unique for each tree.
  general: # Header name
    github: "https://www.github.com/" # Link-text: url
    gmail: "https://mail.google.com/"
  reddit:
    # the following is an example of naming a link something with a space,
    # or containing characters that cannot be in a yaml variable name.
    frontpage: 
      - "https://www.reddit.com/"
      - "front page"
    unixporn: "https://www.reddit.com/r/unixporn/"
tree_2:
  other:
    archwiki: 
      - "https://archlinux.org/"
      - "arch wiki"
    hulu: "https://www.hulu.com/"
    netflix: "https://www.netflix.com/"
    youtube: "https://www.youtube.com/"
```

# Themes

A variety of themes can be found in the `themes` directory. 

If one wishes to dynamically theme from `pywal`, they may select `pywal` as their chosen theme in `config.yaml`.

# Docker

In order to circumvent some restrictions on browsers for what is allowed as a "Home" and "New Tab" page, you can host StartTree as a lightweight `NGINX` server through `docker-compose`.

To set this up, one must have `docker` and `docker-compose` installed and configured. Then, go into the directory where you cloned `StartTree`, and run

```bash
cd docker
vim docker-compose.yaml # edit specifics to your liking
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yaml up -d
```

This will make the `NGINX` server persist across reboots. You can point your browser's new tab and home page to `localhost:<port#>` and you should see your startpage!
